# Breakout Replica
As part of the YETi CGI openLab Coding Bootcamp, I had the opportunity to develop a replica of the arcade game "Breakout." This project uses the Casual Open Source Simulation Platform in tandem with Javascript in order to create an interactive, playable version of the classic game. 

## How it Works 
This program uses multiple setInterval functions in Javascript in order to provide the continuous movement of the ball around the screen. Upon the start of the game, several pointers are generated detailing which direction the ball is moving in and which boundary (left, top, right, or bottom) the ball should be moving towards. Each time the interval is run, an if-statement is run which checks these pointers along with the x and y coordinates of the ball in order to continue moving the ball in a given direction. Should the ball's x and y coordinates ever register as the same or nearly the same as a brick, the brick will disapear from the screen, and the pointers will update to accomodate the ball's change in direction. Should the ball's x and y coordinates ever register as being outside of the bounds of any of the four boundaries (left, top, right, bottom), the pointers will again update to accomodate the ball's change in direction. After a certain number of bricks have been destroyed, the interval will increase, causing the ball to move faster around the the screen and hence make the game more challenging. Whenever the ball comes into contact with the bottom boundary, the ball's x and y coordinates must be within a certain distance of the x and y coordinates of the paddle; otherwise, the game ends. Upon this situation occuring, or the player destroying all of the bricks, the player will be given the option to play again which will reset the screen to the starting display.
